---
layout: post
title: "Workflow for compiling R markdown file to blog post in Coding Club UC3M website"
author: hoanguc3m
date: "May 1, 2018"
categories: []
published: true
visible: false
excerpt_seperator: ""
output:
  html_document:
    mathjax:  default
---



# Prepare the `R markdown` file

Firstly, we prepare the `R markdown` file as following,

- You need to create the content of the `R markdown` file.
- You need to change the name of the file to `date-shortTitle.Rmd` for example `2016-10-01-Blogging-with-Rmarkdown-and-knitr.Rmd`.
- You need to add the header to the `R markdown` file such that it could be translated later by `Jekyll`.


{% highlight r %}
layout: post
comments:  true
title: "Title of your talk"
author: YourName
date: 2016-10-01 20:30:00
published: true
visible: false
categories: [R, tag name]
excerpt_seperator: ""
output:
  html_document:
    mathjax:  default
    number_sections: no
    toc: yes
    toc_float:
      collapsed: no
      smooth_scroll: no
    code_folding: show
{% endhighlight %}

where you can change ```title, author, date, categories``` as the description of the talk. 
The field ```published``` and ```visible``` say that if you want to publish the article and put it visible.
If ```published: false ```, the article cannot be viewed on the website.
If ```published: true ``` and ```visible: false``` the article can be viewed on the website only when you know the link to access it.


# Compile `R markdown` file to `markdown` file

a. You need to install `knitr` package and add this function to `R` environment.


{% highlight r %}
KnitPost <- function(input, base.url = "/") {
    require(knitr)
    opts_knit$set(base.url = base.url)
    fig.path <- paste0("figure/source/", sub(".Rmd$", "", basename(input)), "/")
    opts_chunk$set(fig.path = fig.path)
    opts_chunk$set(fig.cap = "center")
    render_jekyll()
    knit(input, envir = parent.frame())
}
{% endhighlight %}

b. Then compile the `R markdown` file that you created, for example

{% highlight r %}
KnitPost("2016-10-1-Blogging-with-Rmarkdown-and-knitr.Rmd")
{% endhighlight %}

`RStudio` will compile the `R` code and paste the output to the `2016-10-1-Blogging-with-Rmarkdown-and-knitr.md` file.

c. Copy the output figure folder to `codingclubuc3m.github.io` main folder and the `md` file to `_post` folder. Then commit changes and upload to `github` folder. 

{% highlight r %}
git add -A
git commit -m "New post 10/2016"
git push
{% endhighlight %}
